services/children/head_start.md, before:

---
layout: default
title:  Children's Services - Head Start
---
## Head Start
<div class="five columns" style="float: right;">
  <a href="#" class="th"><img src="/images/children/head_start_classroom.jpg"></a>
</div>
Head Start is a federally funded program whereby family income must conform to established income levels.

### The Mission
The mission of this program is to enhance the development of children three to five years of age, to promote the family's self-sufficiency and to prepare children for success in kindergarten.

### About
Our program offers center-based preschool education and parent involvement activities to encourage parents to assume an active role in the child's Head Start experience. We partner with parents to monitor the children's health, nutritional, dental needs and developmental progress.

### Participation
Participation and enrollment are voluntary and eligible families in Marshall and Starke Counties receive comprehensive early childhood services at no charge.

Head Start preschool classrooms are located in Plymouth, Culver, Knox, and North Judson. The main offices are located at [Kaleidoscope Children's Center](/contacts.html) in Plymouth and St. Thomas School in Knox.

{% include child.main %}

Commit message:

add links to the online applications

services/children/head_start.md, after:

---
layout: default
title:  Children's Services - Head Start
---
## Head Start
<div class="five columns" style="float: right;">
  <a href="#" class="th"><img src="/images/children/head_start_classroom.jpg"></a>
</div>
Head Start is a federally funded program whereby family income must conform to established income levels.

### The Mission
The mission of this program is to enhance the development of children three to five years of age, to promote the family's self-sufficiency and to prepare children for success in kindergarten.

### About
Our program offers center-based preschool education and parent involvement activities to encourage parents to assume an active role in the child's Head Start experience. We partner with parents to monitor the children's health, nutritional, dental needs and developmental progress.

### Participation
Participation and enrollment are voluntary and eligible families in Marshall and Starke Counties receive comprehensive early childhood services at no charge.

Head Start preschool classrooms are located in Plymouth, Culver, Knox, and North Judson. The main offices are located at [Kaleidoscope Children's Center](/contacts.html) in Plymouth and St. Thomas School in Knox.

### Online Application
If you are interested in enrolling a child in the Head Start program the online application is available in both [English](https://www.childplus.net/apply/en-us/9E20DD89A9CDD8E7D054032475D9E224/4219B46E092C8DC0BE33FBCD39BE6ABE) and [hSpanish](https://www.childplus.net/apply/es/9E20DD89A9CDD8E7D054032475D9E224/4219B46E092C8DC0BE33FBCD39BE6ABE)

{% include child.main %}
