report/children.md, before:

---
layout: default
title:  "2014 Accomplishments (Children)"
---
{% include annual.report.breadcrumb %}

## Children's Programs: Highlights and Accomplishments

<h4 class="subheader" id="overview">OVERVIEW</h4>
The Division of Childrens Services is composed of three principle programs: Head Start, Early Head Start and Early Childhood Vocational Education.

Our Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide children and their families with education, health, nutrition, and social services. Services are
responsive to each childs and familys ethnic, cultural, and linguistic heritage.

Head Start for children 3-5 years of age supports parents as their childs first and most important teachers. Head Start builds relationships with families that support positive parentchild interactions, family well-being, and connections to peers and community.

Early Head Start serves pregnant women, infants, and toddlers. Early Head Start helps families care for their infants and toddlers through early, continuous, intensive, and comprehensive services.

Our Head Start (HS) and Early Head Start (EHS) programs may serve a combined total of 222 childern -5 years of age inclusive of pregnant women, Our service area is comprised of Marshall and Starke Counties. Funded enrollments are 182 children for Head Start and 40 children and pregnant women for Early Head Start,

Marshall-Starke HS and EHS maintained active waitlists. Unfortunately, not all children on the waitlists were offered enrollment opportunities due to the requirement not to exceed at any one time the funded enrollment of 222 children. Based on the most recent data from the American Community Survey the estimated number of eligible HS and EHS children for our service area is 362. In 2014 the programs' combined cumulative enrollment was 301 children. Eighty-three (83) percent of the total number of eligible children were served by Marshall-Starke HS and EHS

The information gathered during a four day intensive Triennial review conducted in 2012 by a team of six federal compliance monitors, determined the programs to be in full compliance with all applicable performance standards, laws, regulations, and policy requirements.

<h4 class="subheader">HEAD START &amp; EARLY HEAD START PERFORMANCE INDICATORS</h4>

<table class="responsive">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Performance Indicators</th>
            <th>Head Start</th>
            <th>Early Head Start</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Funded Enrollment</td>
        <td>182</td>
        <td>40</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Total 2014 cumulative enrollment</td>
        <td>223</td>
        <td>68</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Number of EHS pregnant women</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>10</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Total number of children with a disability</td>
        <td>28</td>
        <td>26</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children with a continuous source of preventative medical and dental care</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children with up to date immunizations, all possible immunizations to date</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children diagnosed with a chronic health condition who received medical treatment</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of families experiencing homelessness</td>
        <td>0%</td>
        <td>0%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Average monthly attendance</td>
        <td>86%</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of pregnant women who received prenatal care</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of pregnant women who received postpartum health care</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children who are up-to-date on a schedule of age appropriate preventative oral health care</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<h4 class="subheader">PARENT &amp; COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERS</h4>
<table class="responsive">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Volunteer Type</th>
            <th>HS</th>
            <th>EHS</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Parent/Relative</td>
        <td>293</td>
        <td>69</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Community Volunteers</td>
        <td>269</td>
        <td>7</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<h5 class="subheader">EARLY CHILDHOOD VOCATIONAL EDUCATION</h5>
Now in its 12th year, in partnership with the Northern Central Area Vocational Collaborative, the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program provides instruction and field experience for junior and senior high school students interested in pursuing a professional career in Early Childhood Education. The course is available to students attending 10 area high schools. Since its inception over 250 students have completed the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program.

The students receive in-class instruction supplemented with direct vocational experience in Head Start and Kindergarten classrooms. Students may earn six transferrable college credits the first year and three additional college credits the second year for a total of nine college credits. The college credits are issued by Indiana Ivy Tech College. The majority of students who complete the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program pursue post secondary education. This partnership affords the students vocational experience in the field of ECE while benefitting Head Start children with individual attention and interaction. The student volunteer time is a valuable in-kind contribution.

At this time our Head Start Program employs four graduates of the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program.

<h5 class="subheader">TYPES OF ELIGIBILITY BY ENROLLEE</h5>
<table class="responsive">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Number of Enrollees</th>
            <th>HS</th>
            <th>EHS</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Income below 100% of federal poverty line</td>
        <td>134</td>
        <td>46</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Receipt of Public Assistance</td>
        <td>28</td>
        <td>12</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Status as Foster Care</td>
        <td>12</td>
        <td>5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Primary Language</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>English</td>
        <td>213</td>
        <td>66</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Spanish</td>
        <td>10</td>
        <td>12</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Ethnicity</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Hispanic or Latin Origin</td>
        <td>18</td>
        <td>25</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Non-Hispanic or Latin Origin</td>
        <td>205</td>
        <td>53</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Families</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Number of Families</td>
        <td>198</td>
        <td>58</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Two Parent Families</td>
        <td>58%</td>
        <td>66%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Single Parent Families</td>
        <td>42%</td>
        <td>34%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Employment (At Time of Enrollment)</strong></td></tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Percentage of Two Parent Families with:</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>One or Both Parents Employed</td>
        <td>82%</td>
        <td>87%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Percentage of Single Parent Families with:</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Parent Employed</td>
        <td>46%</td>
        <td>16%</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Eighty-four (84) percent of our Head Start families and 74% of our Early Head
Start families have a parent who graduated from high school.

Commit message:

add additional information to children section

report/children.md, after:

---
layout: default
title:  "2014 Accomplishments (Children)"
---
{% include annual.report.breadcrumb %}

## Children's Programs: Highlights and Accomplishments

<h4 class="subheader" id="overview">OVERVIEW</h4>
The Division of Childrens Services is composed of three principle programs: Head Start, Early Head Start and Early Childhood Vocational Education.

Our Head Start and Early Head Start programs provide children and their families with education, health, nutrition, and social services. Services are
responsive to each childs and familys ethnic, cultural, and linguistic heritage.

Head Start for children 3-5 years of age supports parents as their childs first and most important teachers. Head Start builds relationships with families that support positive parentchild interactions, family well-being, and connections to peers and community.

Early Head Start serves pregnant women, infants, and toddlers. Early Head Start helps families care for their infants and toddlers through early, continuous, intensive, and comprehensive services.

Our Head Start (HS) and Early Head Start (EHS) programs may serve a combined total of 222 childern -5 years of age inclusive of pregnant women, Our service area is comprised of Marshall and Starke Counties. Funded enrollments are 182 children for Head Start and 40 children and pregnant women for Early Head Start,

Marshall-Starke HS and EHS maintained active waitlists. Unfortunately, not all children on the waitlists were offered enrollment opportunities due to the requirement not to exceed at any one time the funded enrollment of 222 children. Based on the most recent data from the American Community Survey the estimated number of eligible HS and EHS children for our service area is 362. In 2014 the programs' combined cumulative enrollment was 301 children. Eighty-three (83) percent of the total number of eligible children were served by Marshall-Starke HS and EHS

The information gathered during a four day intensive Triennial review conducted in 2012 by a team of six federal compliance monitors, determined the programs to be in full compliance with all applicable performance standards, laws, regulations, and policy requirements.

*Marshall-Starke Early Head Start (EHS)* established school readiness goals that recognize the impact of early experiences on brain development. The EHS school readiness goals acknowledge how early experiences, particularly the relationship created jointly by baby and parents, shape the foundational learning structures of the brain. The school readiness goals are relationship based and relate to early developmental milestones. The last analysis of school readiness data showed the majority of children attained age appropriate expectations.

Because supporting children’s readiness is an ongoing partnership between staff and families the program implemented the Parent, Family, Community Engagement Framework. The Framework is a tool for engaging families and supporting childrens ongoing learning and development. The role of parents in their child’s education should not be understated. Parent engagement is considered by this program to be a school readiness goal. The program successfully achieved 100% parent participation in parent-teacher conferences.

<h4 class="subheader">COMMUNITY CONNECTIONS</h4>
The programs rely on the support and participation of community partners. Partnership relationships exist with the following agencies; WIC. Local School Corporations, Healthy Families, Neighborhood Center, Department of Children Services, Salvation Army, Care and Share, Community Services of Starke County, Love Inc., Bella Vita, J...S.., North Central Area Vocational Cooperative, and Council on Aging.

The HS program featured a guest reader each month. Readers were recruited from the following professions / organizations; business, civic groups, government, schools, churches and health care.

<h4 class="subheader">QUALITY OF INSTRUCTION</h4>
The Office of Head Start measures the quality of teacher and student interaction using CLASS (Classroom Assessment Scoring System. The interactions between teacher and student are considered the primary mechanism of student development and learning. Our programs CLASS scores surpassed the national mean.

In 2014 our Head Start program received a Marshall County United Way Award. The grant allowed for additional mental health services for the enrolled HS children.

The mission of Marshall-Starke HS and EHS is to prepare children for success in kindergarten. To provide the educational preparation expected by our local school systems and by the Office of Head Start, the programs collect and analyze child outcome data, including progress toward attainment of school readiness goals, four times per year at approximately 12 week intervals. The data is used to evaluate patterns of performance across the program and to individualize instruction for each student based on the childs strengths and needs. Outcome data drives instruction and decision making.

Outcome data are shared with local school principals for children who will enter their kindergarten classrooms. The data show the percentage of children at the intermediate and advanced level.

A comparative analysis of approximately 35,000 HS children reported children enrolled in Marshall-Starke HS surpassed state and national averages of other HS children in all areas: Math, Motor, Language, Logic and Reasoning. Approaches to Learning, Social Studies, Science, Social and Emotional, and Creative Arts, Approximately 95% of the HS children eligible for entry into kindergarten achieved the designated school readiness goals.

<h4 class="subheader">HEAD START &amp; EARLY HEAD START PERFORMANCE INDICATORS</h4>

<table class="responsive">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Performance Indicators</th>
            <th>Head Start</th>
            <th>Early Head Start</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Funded Enrollment</td>
        <td>182</td>
        <td>40</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Total 2014 cumulative enrollment</td>
        <td>223</td>
        <td>68</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Number of EHS pregnant women</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>10</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Total number of children with a disability</td>
        <td>28</td>
        <td>26</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children with a continuous source of preventative medical and dental care</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children with up to date immunizations, all possible immunizations to date</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children diagnosed with a chronic health condition who received medical treatment</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of families experiencing homelessness</td>
        <td>0%</td>
        <td>0%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Average monthly attendance</td>
        <td>86%</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of pregnant women who received prenatal care</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of pregnant women who received postpartum health care</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Percentage of children who are up-to-date on a schedule of age appropriate preventative oral health care</td>
        <td>100%</td>
        <td>100%</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<h4 class="subheader">PARENT &amp; COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERS</h4>
<table class="responsive">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Volunteer Type</th>
            <th>HS</th>
            <th>EHS</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Parent/Relative</td>
        <td>293</td>
        <td>69</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Community Volunteers</td>
        <td>269</td>
        <td>7</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<h5 class="subheader">EARLY CHILDHOOD VOCATIONAL EDUCATION</h5>
Now in its 12th year, in partnership with the Northern Central Area Vocational Collaborative, the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program provides instruction and field experience for junior and senior high school students interested in pursuing a professional career in Early Childhood Education. The course is available to students attending 10 area high schools. Since its inception over 250 students have completed the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program.

The students receive in-class instruction supplemented with direct vocational experience in Head Start and Kindergarten classrooms. Students may earn six transferrable college credits the first year and three additional college credits the second year for a total of nine college credits. The college credits are issued by Indiana Ivy Tech College. The majority of students who complete the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program pursue post secondary education. This partnership affords the students vocational experience in the field of ECE while benefitting Head Start children with individual attention and interaction. The student volunteer time is a valuable in-kind contribution.

At this time our Head Start Program employs four graduates of the Early Childhood Vocational Education Program.

<h5 class="subheader">TYPES OF ELIGIBILITY BY ENROLLEE</h5>
<table class="responsive">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Number of Enrollees</th>
            <th>HS</th>
            <th>EHS</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Income below 100% of federal poverty line</td>
        <td>134</td>
        <td>46</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Receipt of Public Assistance</td>
        <td>28</td>
        <td>12</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Status as Foster Care</td>
        <td>12</td>
        <td>5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Primary Language</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>English</td>
        <td>213</td>
        <td>66</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Spanish</td>
        <td>10</td>
        <td>12</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Ethnicity</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Hispanic or Latin Origin</td>
        <td>18</td>
        <td>25</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Non-Hispanic or Latin Origin</td>
        <td>205</td>
        <td>53</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Families</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Number of Families</td>
        <td>198</td>
        <td>58</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Two Parent Families</td>
        <td>58%</td>
        <td>66%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Single Parent Families</td>
        <td>42%</td>
        <td>34%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Employment (At Time of Enrollment)</strong></td></tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Percentage of Two Parent Families with:</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>One or Both Parents Employed</td>
        <td>82%</td>
        <td>87%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td><strong>Percentage of Single Parent Families with:</strong></td></tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Parent Employed</td>
        <td>46%</td>
        <td>16%</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Eighty-four (84) percent of our Head Start families and 74% of our Early Head
Start families have a parent who graduated from high school.
