report/message.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "2012 President's Message"
---
{% include annual.report.breadcrumb %}

##President’s Message
Fiscal year 2013 was yet another good year for the Marshall-Starke Development Center.  We have had continued success with our strategy to improve the over-all financial condition of the organization, and we are confident that progress will continue.  
 
A grant from the Marshall County Community Foundation made it possible for us to make some much needed improvements to our facility. 
We are very appreciative of the support we have received from the Marshall County Community Foundation, and very pleased with the 
building improvements.  However, the success and satisfaction experienced and expressed by those we serve, is for me, the highlight 
of fiscal year 2013. 
 
Our Head Start statistics are well above average across the board.  Our Adult Programs receive very high reviews from consumers, 
families, and referral sources.  These things, I believe, speak volumes about Marshall-Starke Development Center, and I want to 
thank the staff and the Board of Directors for making that possible.

![Michael Lintner](/images/mike_signature.png)
#### *Michael Lintner*
President & Chief Executive Officer  
Marshall-Starke Development Center

Commit message:

preserve 2013 report; update president's message

report/message.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "2014 President's Message"
---
{% include annual.report.breadcrumb %}

##President’s Message
Fiscal year 2014 was yet another very positive year for Marshall-Starke Development Center. We have continued to improve our financial position while providing a variety of services that continue to receive very favorable marks from consumers, family, and funding sources alike.

I think the highlights of the year, for me, have been some new activities that the consumers have gotten involved in. Probably the biggest new activity was the 2 12 day camping trip to the Tippecanoe State Park. More than 100 of our consumers had a great time, even though the temperatures for September were extremely high. Another activity initiated in 2014 was having a consumer cooking group prepare lunches for our Board of Directors meetings. Each time the group preparing the lunch was brought in to be introduced to the Board. This really turned out to be a great activity enjoyed by the consumers and the Board members.

Also this year, I had consumers accompany me to each of our County Commissioners meetings and do a presentation and an update on the current activities of the Center. I think this was enjoyed greatly by the consumers and the County Commissioners.
One new project we started looking at in 2014 was building a Greenhouse at our PIDCO Drive location. Our vision is to have our consumers grow and sell vegetables. We are in the fund raising stage and hope to have this project completed in FY 2015.

![Michael Lintner](/images/mike_signature.png)
#### *Michael Lintner*
President & Chief Executive Officer  
Marshall-Starke Development Center
